ROB DODSON: Hey there,
folks, Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
In the last episode,
I was showing off
Polymer Starter Kit 2, one of
our new Polymer CLI generators.
Today, I thought it would be
really cool to demonstrate
how you can actually build your
own generator for Polymer CLI.
So follow me over
here to my laptop.
And where we want to
start is over here
on the Yeoman website.
A Polymer CLI generator,
under the hood,
is really just a
Yeoman generator.
And if you haven't
heard of Yeoman before,
it's a little utility
for scaffolding out
projects for you.
So it'll stamp out
your files, it'll
do a little bit of variable
substitution and renaming
for you, and it's generally
a very useful tool
for just kind of like
getting up and running
with a nice boilerplate.
So the first thing
we're going to do
is we're going to go
over to our terminal,
and we're going to run npm.
I'll bump this up
a little bit so you
can see it-- npm install -g.
So we're going to
globally install
yo, which is the
command for Yeoman,
and this thing called
generator-generator.
And that's actually
a Yeoman generator
that will generate Yeoman
generators for you.
So you can run that command.
It'll take a second to install.
And then, I'm going to
go over to my desktop,
and I'm going to
make a new directory.
And every Polymer
CLI generator needs
to start with the prefix
generator-polymer-init.
And then you can give
it whatever name you
want for your own generator.
So I'm going to call
this template-seed.
So it's a bit of
a long name there.
But that prefix is
really important
because that prefix gets
picked up by Polymer CLI
after you've installed
the generator.
And that's how it
actually can tell you,
hey, this is the thing
that we want to init.
So I'm going to
make that directory.
I'm going to cd into generator
polymer -init tempate seed.
Now I'm going to run yo.
And it will give me a
few options for things
that I can generate.
I've got a few other
generators already installed.
But the one I want is this one
that's just called generator.
So I'll do that, and it's
going to ask me some questions.
I'm just going to
fly through here
and just take all
the defaults, right?
Skip all that stuff.
And it'll take a second.
It's going to stamp out
a bunch of files for me.
And it's also going to in npm
install all of the dependencies
to make Yeoman run.
So we'll wait a moment for that
to do its thing-- npm install
takes a very long time.
All right.
So we're done.
We've installed all
of our dependencies.
And I'm going to open
this up in my Code Editor.
So over here in our
Code Editor, I will--
I'm going to
[? embiggen ?] things
a little bit so you can see.
It created a number of files
for me-- package_json, readme,
bunch of stuff.
The one that I really care about
is this generators directory
inside of here.
It's got an app directory.
It's got a templates directory,
which right now contains
this one file called
dummyfile.txt,
and then it's got
this index_js file.
So let's open that up.
We'll look at the index_js file.
There's a lot of JavaScript
here, but most of this
is stuff that you don't really
need to worry too much about.
Basically, there is a little
section here at the top,
in this prompting function,
where it will sort of speak
to the user in their terminal.
It'll ask them questions
about the project
that they are setting up.
This is a good place for
you to create variables
that you can then use
elsewhere in your templates.
So for instance,
right now it's just
got this default
example prompt here.
It's a confirm style prompt,
so a yes or no prompt.
And it's going to ask you, would
you like to enable this option?
Just sort of like
made something up.
In our case, what I want
to do in our generator is
I want to have kind
of a default element
that the user uses as
sort of like the root
of their application.
So we'll change this
to an input prompt.
We're going to change the name
of the variable to elementName.
The question is going to be,
what would you like your root
element to be called?
And we're going to give it a
default value of my-element.
So now we've got this
elementName property
that's just available to
us throughout the rest
of out template.
Now, there's also
this writing section.
This is where it's
going to copy all
the files from this
templates directory
onto the user's computer.
So in this case, you
can see that it's
copying that dummy text
file from the template path,
and stumping it to the
destination path, which
is basically whichever directory
the user is currently in.
So what I want to do now is
actually, instead of just using
this one dummy file, I want to
have a few real project files.
And I'm going to go over
to Polymer Starter Kit
and just steal a few
things from here.
So we know we want
to bower_json.
So I will open this file up.
I'm going to grab its contents.
And because this is like a
pretty simplified generator,
I'm just going to
really slim this down.
So I'll say the
name of my project
is just going to be my-project.
Authors are whoever.
The dependencies, I'll
just say right now
that the only dependency
is Polymer itself.
Maybe this is like a really
tiny generator to get people up
and running really fast.
So this is like the
world's smallest bower_json
file that we could have.
So we've got that.
Now let's also create an
index_html file-- always
want to have one of those.
Again, we'll go over
to Polymer Starter Kit,
and maybe just steal the
one that is over here.
So we'll all right,
give me the index file.
OK.
Just dump that in here.
I can actually remove
some of these things
that I don't care about as much.
So I'm not, for instance,
going to-- maybe
I'm not going to import a
bunch of elements or anything
like that.
So let's see, we'll get rid
of these critical styles.
Maybe we don't care about those.
The element name,
we're actually going
to ask for that
name from the user.
So instead of just having a hard
coded element name right here,
we're going to use some of
Yeoman's templating syntax.
So it actually uses the
sort of-- the syntax kind
of looks like this where if
you want to expand a variable,
you say bracket, percent sign,
equals and then variable name,
whatever that is.
And then you say percent
sign, and then you
close the bracket, right?
So this is how you do
variable expansion in Yeoman.
What I'm going to do is dump
that into this tag here.
So I'll say, all
right, I want this
to be that element name that I'm
going to prompt the user for.
And then, we're just
going to close it and also
say, hey, that should
also be the element name.
And we want to steal this and
also use it for our import
up here.
So source directory, we're
going to have whatever element
name they want in there.
Let's see, what else
do we have here?
We've got this little
bit of JavaScript
that is going to lazy load the
web component's poly fills.
That's good.
Normally, we would-- if you want
to build a progressive web app,
you might ship a service worker.
To keep things
really simple, I'm
actually going to remove
this little chunk right here.
So we won't worry about
service workers right now.
We're just going to have a
super bare bones Polymer app.
Otherwise, I think we can
leave pretty much everything
in this file.
We can get rid of this
dummy file, don't need that.
Get rid of that.
The last thing we
want to do is we want
to create a source directory.
And inside of here, I'm
going to create a file.
And I'm going to call
it _element.html.
OK?
And the reason why I'm doing
this is because, remember,
the element name is
something that the user is
going to pass into us
as one of their prompts.
And so, we don't
want to hard code
a filename for that element.
Instead, we're going to
also take that filename
and generate it
based on the answer
that the user provides
to the prompt.
So the contents of this element
are going to be super simple.
We're actually just going to
grab some boilerplate code here
and dump that in.
And what we're doing is we're
importing Bower components.
We've got our element name.
Element name for the is
property, element name
for the value down here.
So this is just sort of like
a really, really basic Polymer
element.
It doesn't really do anything.
It just sort of like says the
value of one property inside
of an H2.
The cool thing that
we're going to do,
though, is we're going go
back to that index_js file.
Remember, this is the
one where we prompt
the user for the element name.
And we have this little
writing block here.
And I'm going to replace that
writing function with a custom
one that I created earlier.
And I'll walk you through
what's happening here.
So inside of this
writing function,
we are taking the element name,
which we got from our prompts.
This is stored inside of
this props variable here.
So we're creating a
reference to that.
And then we're saying that we
want to copy our template files
over to the user's machine.
We're using a regular
expression here though-- to say,
hey, anything that starts
with an underscore,
like that element HTML file
that we just created, hold off.
Don't copy that just yet.
Instead just copy everything
that doesn't have an underscore
over to the user's computer.
That's stuff that we're not
going to worry about templating
or anything like that.
And then we're going to
specifically tell it to copy
that _element.html file
from the template path
and into the destination.
We're going to use an es
template literal string
to actually generate that file
name based on the element name
property that the
user passed in.
So I think we've got pretty
much everything we have,
or everything we need,
to test our generator.
The next thing that we want
to do is actually hook it up.
Now normally, what
you do is you would
publish this generator to npm.
A user would
globally install it.
And then they could start
using it using Polymer CLI.
But before you do
that, you probably
want to test that the thing
actually works, right?
And so, to do this we can use
a handy little npm command
called npm link.
So when I run this
command, it's actually
going to create a
symbolic link on my system
for this generator.
It's as if I globally
installed it.
But really it's just linking
to this directory on my file.
So this is really, really
useful any time you're
testing any in npm library
that you're working on.
You can kind of
pretend like you've
got it installed on your
computer, make local changes,
and it will just
update automatically.
So now it's as if we
globally installed it.
So I can go over
to my desktop now.
And I'll bump this
up a little bit.
I'll make a new directory.
I'll call it poly-foo, something
like that, just cd in here.
And then I'm going
to run polymer-init.
And we should now have
this option down here
for this template seed.
Because remember, it's
taking that prefix
generator-polymer-init,
it's chopping that part off.
And it's just using the last
part of our module name, which
is template seed.
Run this puppy.
It's going to ask
us some questions.
Hey, what would you like your
root element to be called?
By default, it says my-element.
I'm going to call it, instead,
my-widget or something
like that.
And then it's going to
copy that file over.
It's going to run bower-install
and install Polymer for us
and our web
components poly fills.
So as that's running, let's see,
it looks like it's finished.
Now we could open
up this project.
And we can see over
in our Code Editor
that we have our
index_html file.
We bump this up a little
bit so you can see it.
And see that it is pulling in
our my-widget element, right?
We've got my widget
down here in index_html.
We've got my-widget in
the source directory.
So the last thing, really,
is just to run polymer-serve.
We're going to
cross our fingers.
And we're going to go
over to local host 8080,
and we should see right
there, boom, hello my-widget
just as we were expecting it.
That about covers it for today.
I would encourage all of
you, if you want to, go
start creating your
own generators.
Put them up on Github,
put them up on npm.
Ping me.
Let me know when
you create them.
I definitely want to share
them out to the world
and get as many people
building these cool CLI
templates as possible.
If you have any questions
for me, as always,
you can leave them
down in the comments.
Or ping me on a social
network of your choosing
at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching.
I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]